One of the greatest mysteries of
mankind is
Where did we come from?
Scientists and philosophers
alike have pondered
this elusive question and put
forth many explanations,
but in truth, no one really
knows.
Good evening, I'm Charlton
Heston.
In their search for answers,
scientists gather evidence
and develop theories based on
what they observe.
But sometimes evidence turns up
that completely contradicts
this.
Footprints resembling modern
man's were discovered in Texas
side by side with dinosaur
tracks.
Does this mean that man lived
millions of years ago
at the time of the dinosaur?
These 70 ton blocks were somehow
transported
to the Peruvian mountain temple
of Ollantaytambo.
The only source of this red
granite is five miles away
on the peak of another mountain.
Ancient maps have been
discovered which
correctly depict the continent
of Antarctica
centuries before it was
discovered by Europeans.
Some claim this is evidence of a
technologically advanced culture
that existed before recorded
history began.
Tonight we'll examine these and
other controversial findings
to see if what we're being
taught about the origins of man
is supported by the evidence.
We'll meet a new breed of
scientific investigators
who claim that the history of
man and this planet
may be radically different than
what is accepted today.
Before the 19th century, western
man looked to the Bible
for an explanation of his
origins.
In the story of Genesis,
God created man from the dust of
the earth 6,000 years ago.
But when man dug into the earth
for answers,
he found evidence that appeared
to tell a different story --
evolution.
In 1859, Charles Darwin
published his book,
The Origin of Species.
This book put forth the
revolutionary idea that
all life on Earth could be
explained
by the workings of nature.
Instead of a supreme being
creating the diversity of life,
the theory of evolution proposes
that accidental changes in
nature are the cause.
These changes are governed by
the process of natural
selection,
survival of the fittest.
Over the past two centuries
archeologists have collected
bones and artifacts that suggest
there's a logical sequence
of evolutionary steps from ape
to man.
Man's earliest relatives were
ape-like beings
who appeared around 25 million
years ago.
The first of those to walk
upright emerged
20 million years later.
Over the remaining 5 million
years he continued to evolve,
passing through various stages
of development until modern man,
like ourselves, emerged over
100,000 years ago.
Archeologists determine the age
of artifacts
by the level of strata, or layer
of earth, they are found in.
Recent artifacts associated with
modern man are generally found
close to the surface, while
older, more primitive artifacts
are in deeper layers of the
ground.
But sometimes artifacts are
found that break all the rules.
Archeologists call them
anomalous artifacts.
What happens when we find a
modern human skull
in rock strata far beneath even
the oldest of man's ancestors?
In their controversial book,
Forbidden Archeology,
Michael Cremo and Dr. Richard
Thompson have documented
hundreds of these anomalous
artifacts
which have yet to be explained.
The basic body of evidence that
we've uncovered in this book
suggests that human beings of
modern anatomical type
have been existing for many,
many millions of years
into the past.
In 1880, California State
Geologist J.D. Whitney
was intrigued by an unexpected
discovery made 300 feet
under Table Mountain.
While digging for gold,
miners unearthed a variety of
stone tools
such as mortar and pestles and
ladles.
Incredibly, the rock strata the
tools were reportedly found in
was dated as early as 55 million
years old.
Whitney made a thorough report
of these finds
and came to an unsettling
conclusion:
Man could be millions of years
older
than the current evolutionary
model suggests.
This bizarre evidence seems to
have been well documented,
yet the general public and many
within the scientific community
are unaware of these
controversial finds.
The question is,
why haven't we heard of these
discoveries before?
Oh, I think we're talking about
a massive cover-up.
As I said, over the past 150
years,
these archeologists and
anthropologists have
covered up as much evidence as
they've dug up, literally.
Basically what you find is
something we call
a 'knowledge filter'.
This is a fundamental feature of
science.
It's also a fundamental feature
of human nature.
People tend to filter out things
that don't fit,
that don't make sense in terms
of their paradigm,
or their way of thinking.
So, in science, you find that
evidence that doesn't fit the
accepted paradigm
tends to be eliminated.
It's not taught, it's not
discussed,
and people who are educated in
scientific teachings
generally don't even learn about
it.
Conventional theory states
that modern man originated in
southern Africa
around 100,000 years ago.
From there, he migrated north
into Europe and southern Asia.
He continued through Asia and
crossed the Bering Strait
into the new world around 30,000
years ago.
He then came down through North
America
and finally arrived in South
America around 15,000 years ago.
Yet numerous artifacts have been
found across
North and South America that are
so old,
they threaten to completely
overturn this theory.
According to geologist Virginia
Steen-McIntyre,
she was silenced at the height
of her career
because of her determination to
report the facts.
In the summer of 1966 a
collection of stone tools,
including this leaf-shaped spear
point
was uncovered at Hueyatlaco,
Mexico.
To find out exactly how old the
spear points were,
a team of experts from the
United States Geological Survey
was called in to date them.
When we first began to work on
the Hueyatlaco site,
we thought we had an old site.
This was back in '66, and we
thought it was perhaps
20,000 years old,
and at that time that was
considered a very old age
for the site.
We did what they call
radiometric dates,
which gives an actual date
range,
and we used two different
methods to do that.
One was using uranium atoms,
another one was using little
zircon crystals.
When we finally got the dates in
all the different methods
we used to date it, it came out
to be 250,000 years old.
To tell you the truth, I would
have been happy
with a 20,000 year old date.
It would have made my career.
It was very old for the time,
but it wasn't so old that it was
that controversial.
People can take 20,000 year
steps,
they can't take steps that are
over 200,000 years at one time.
And I was rather naive. I
thought, OK,
we've got something big here,
but I'm just going to
stick with the date.
We've got the information, we've
got the facts.
Let's get the facts out and go
on from there.
And I didn't realize it was
going to ruin my whole career.
According to Dr. McIntyre,
because she stuck to the facts,
all of her professional
opportunities were closed off.
She has not worked in her chosen
field since.
The site was closed,
and permission for further
investigation was denied.
Forever.
It's not necessarily a
deliberate conspiracy,
in the sense of some people
getting together
in a smoke filled room and
saying,
we're going to deceive people.
It's something that happens
automatically
within the scientific community.
So when a given piece of
evidence disagrees with the
predominant theory, then
automatically
people won't talk about it, they
won't report it,
and that means that science
fails to progress
in the way that one would hope.
Dinosaurs left their tracks on
this riverbank
100 million years ago.
Did humans walk here at the same
time?
Next, a man who claims these
prints are proof
that humans lived with the
dinosaurs.
Ever since dinosaurs were first
discovered in the 18th century,
they've fascinated people of all
ages.
The Tyrannosaurus Rex stood over
30 feet in height.
He is considered the most
ferocious predator
ever to walk the earth.
A Brontosaurus grew to the
length of three city buses.
He weighed more than 90 tons.
The reign of the dinosaur ended,
according to one theory,
when a giant meteor crashed into
the Earth
with the force of thousands of
hydrogen bombs.
A cloud of dust was raised which
blocked the sun for years.
This marked the end of the
dinosaurs.
According to conventional
scientific theory,
no human beings were alive then
to witness these events.
Or were they?
Over 100 million years ago,
the limestone bedrock of the
Paluxy River in Texas
was a muddy plain.
It was here that countless
dinosaurs left their footprints
to be fossilized and preserved
forever.
But the tracks of another
creature
have also been preserved in
these banks,
possibly the tracks of man.
Archeologist Carl Baugh has led
the investigation
of these controversial prints
for over 12 years.
My reaction was one of shock.
I had heard of human footprints
being found in this locale,
on the Paluxy near Glen Rose,
Texas,
but I was rather skeptical.
And here, after removing actual
rock layers,
the team and I excavated a
series of dinosaur footprints.
And 18 and one half inches
from one of those dinosaur
footprints,
we excavated a 16 inch human
footprint.
We excavated 12 footprints in a
series.
And when you find a trail with
left, right, left, right
pacing stride, the right
distance apart,
then you have to interpret this
as belonging to humankind.
It's been claimed that the
Paluxy River footprints
are a hoax, carved into the
limestone bedrock
as a tourist attraction.
Well, we found trails leading
under limestone ledges
and actually removed the
limestone ledges
one slab of rock at a time.
And we found that both the
dinosaur footprints
and the trail of human
footprints
continued under the rock ledges.
This evidence is real.
Today, many of these so-called
human prints
have fallen victim to erosion
and the hands of vandals.
But Carl Baugh is in possession
of one of the most compelling
prints ever found.
What you are about to see is the
most controversial artifact
in his collection.
I first saw the Burdick Print on
my initial visit to Glen Rose
in 1984.
My impression at that time was
that it was too perfect.
But it's clearly a human
footprint
demonstrating the heel section,
the arch,
the base of the metatarsals,
the first, or, great toe, 2nd,
3rd, 4th and 5th toe.
After our examination of this
print,
we find that it definitely is in
the Cretaceous limestone,
in the same formation with the
dinosaur footprints.
Here we're looking at a cross
section,
and we can see very obvious
following contours
under the great toe,
and actually structures under
each one
where we see the calcite
inclusion
the force was concentrated and
produced these
load bearing structures which
are exactly what
geologists look for.
We have eliminated the idea that
it's carved,
it definitely is original
impression in the sediment.
This is said to be the
fossilized finger
of a human being.
It too was reportedly found in
the same strata as the
dinosaur tracks, dating to over
a hundred million years old.
It had what appeared to be a
nail,
what appeared to be a cuticle, a
taper... a humanoid shape.
After I saw the CAT scan,
there was no longer any room in
my mind for doubt.
This scan shows the shape of the
finger,
it shows tissue beneath the skin
of the finger.
It shows the bone, it shows the
joints, it shows a ligament.
That tells me this is a human
finger.
The limestone lair that
preserved these artifacts
is reportedly dated at around
135 million years old,
yet as we saw earlier,
objects have been found in rock
strata much older than this.
In Klerksdorp, South Africa,
hundreds of metallic spheres
were found by miners
in pre-Cambrian strata,
said to be a fantastic 2.8
billion years old.
The controversy centers around
the fine groove
encircling some of the spheres.
Lab technicians were at a loss
to explain
how they could have been formed
by any known natural process.
According to the curator of the
Klerksdorp Museum, Rolfe Marx,
the spheres are a complete
mystery.
They look manmade, yet at the
time in Earth's history
when they came to rest on this
rock,
no intelligent life existed.
They're like nothing I've ever
seen before.
Author/researcher David Hatcher
Childress
has written numerous articles on
the coexistence
of humans and dinosaurs.
I think that one of the
solutions to
the paradox of dinosaurs and
people together
and the vast discrepancy in
time,
the whole timeline of millions
of years
versus only thousands of years
can be explained in a
cataclysmically,
geological view of the past,
where rather than geological
events taking place
over millions of years, they
take place more quickly.
And what is a million years on a
geological timescale
is in fact only say a thousand
years.
And therefore it's going to
bring all this dating
much closer to us and make it
possible so that,
in a scientific way, man
and dinosaurs can
have existed together in the
past, and in fact,
dinosaurs can still be alive
today in small numbers
in remote areas of the world.
For instance, in 1977 a Japanese
fishing boat off New Zealand
brought up out of the water the
carcass of what appeared to be
a plesiosaur,
an animal that should have been
extinct for millions of years.
Although the authenticity of
this photograph
has never been disproved,
skeptics have claimed
it's merely the body of a
decomposing shark.
We've seen a broad range of
evidence,
some of it highly speculative,
but there are enough well
documented cases
to call for a closer look at the
conventional explanation
of man's origins -- the theory
of evolution.
England is the birthplace of
evolution's first champion,
Charles Darwin. Darwin's theory
of evolution proposes that
simple life forms or species
evolve into more complex species
by accidental changes over long
periods of time.
For example, given 5 million
years,
an ape can evolve into a man.
Since Darwin's time, his theory
has become central
to our understanding of how man
came into existence.
It's almost universally accepted
today.
But according to science
investigator Richard Milton,
Darwin's theory of how man
evolved from the apes
has some critical problems.
The building behind me is
London's Natural History Museum.
It looks rather like a cathedral
or a church,
and in a way that's what it is.
It's a kind of temple to
Darwin's theory of evolution.
People come to museums like the
Natural History Museum
to get answers to their
question,
have we evolved from apes?
Do humans and apes share a
common ancestor?
And to look at an exhibit like
this,
you'd think that question had
been answered decisively, yes.
But the answer is far from
decisive. In fact,
this representation is an
interpretation of the fossils.
The interpretation of one group
of scientists.
There are other interpretations,
but you won't find them in this
museum,
or any other museum in the
world.
In the model of the evolutionary
tree,
man and apes are said to share a
common ancestor.
However, evidence of that common
ancestor is highly contested.
That's why it is still called
the missing link.
When Darwin's theory of
evolution was embraced,
it was assumed that in the next
century enough fossil evidence
would be found to prove that man
had evolved from the apes.
Darwinists had promised us a
missing link,
and so they've got to deliver,
they've got to come up with one.
Any missing link will do, it
seems.
Every so often a skeleton is
found in Africa.
It's discoverers describe it as
being the missing link,
the headlines come and go, and
then later on, that skeleton,
those bones, are reclassified
either as human or as ape.
And so far, the missing link is
still missing.
One of the most classic examples
of this
is the story of Java Man,
discovered by Eugene Dubois in
1892.
Dubois discovered a very
primitive looking
ape-like skullcap, and he
discovered this thigh bone
about 40 feet away. He said,
well,
obviously they must belong to
the same creature,
and that creature walked erect
like a human being
and had an ape-like skull, so
that must be a missing link-
the Pithecanthropus ape man.
So maybe you had a big ape and a
human being
living together in Java about a
million years ago.
The important point to make
about the Java Man discovery
is that it's based on a
speculative leap
in which two pieces of evidence
are put together in a way
that's not really warranted.
At the end of his life, Dubois
realized that the skullcap
belonged to a large ape, and the
leg bone was from a man.
Nevertheless, Java Man was
prominently displayed
at the Museum of Natural History
in New York until 1984.
Since then it has been removed.
Today museums all over the world
display models
of yet another skeleton they
called the missing link --
the common ancestor of both man
and ape.
Lucy, the famous
Australopithecine
discovered by Donald Johanson.
He says she was very human-like,
but I was at
a conference of anthropologists
where many of them
were making a case that she was
hardly distinguishable from an
ape or a monkey.
These bones have been restored
to resemble a missing link --
part human, part ape.
And Lucy is now thought of as
being our long lost ancestor.
But this is merely an
interpretation,
an interpretation of one group.
Those same bones can be,
and they have been, taken by
scientists
and identified as simply an
extinct ape.
Nothing to do with us at all.
Newspapers are constantly
reporting new discoveries
that add to our understanding of
man's origins, but so far,
conclusive evidence of the
missing link has not been found.
So what happens to the
evolutionary model if the
missing link does not exist at
all?
Without it there's little
support for man's connection
to the apes, and the model
simply collapses.
Some people have said to me, how
can you criticize the theory if
you can't... if you don't have
something to replace it with?
Well, I don't accept that.
If the emperor hasn't got any
clothes on,
then the emperor hasn't got any
clothes on. It's not my fault.
It seems to me that if Darwinism
is wrong,
then somebody has got to point
the finger.
Next we will visit the
mysterious city of Tiwanaku,
built at an altitude of 12 and a
half thousand feet,
with stones weighing 150 tons.
This could be the oldest city in
the world,
built by a civilization as yet
unknown.
In order to unravel the mystery
of man's origins,
we must follow the path of
civilization,
Now, civilization is said to
have spread from the old world
to the new world.
But there is evidence that
humans were building cities
in the new world thousands of
years before history tells us.
Traditionally the oldest city in
the world is thought to be
Jerico in the old world, dated
to around 8,000 BC.
Yet in South America, the
so-called new world,
scientists are looking at
evidence of a city
that could be twice as old.
Situated at an altitude of 12
and a half thousand feet,
Tiwanaku is one of the most
mysterious cities in the world.
Traditionally, it's thought to
have been built
by the predecessors of the Incas
2,000 years ago.
However, around the turn of the
century,
Bolivian scholar Arthur
Posnansky began a 50 year study
of the ruins of Tiwanaku. Using
the science of astonomy,
Posnansky came to an amazing
conclusion.
He calculated that Tiwanaku had
been constructed
more than 17,000 years ago,
long before any civilization was
supposed to have existed.
Posnansky called this fabulous
city the cradle of civilization.
Even though the accuracy of
Posnansky's measurements
were confirmed by engineers,
his conclusions about the age of
Tiwanaku
have never been accepted.
Neil Steede, a Mesoamerican
archeologist
decided to reopen this
controversial investigation.
I met with Dr. Oswaldo Rivera,
who is head of Bolivian
Archeology.
The doctor, though he disagrees
with Posnansky's findings,
was more than willing to help in
every way possible
so that we could retrace
Posnansky's steps.
Neil visited Dr. Rivera's newest
excavation site,
the Acapana Pyramid.
Today, it's mostly ruins,
but the base is miraculously
preserved,
and still testifies to the
advanced capability
of its builders.
The facing stones of this site
are perfectly set
with no mortar. We took a
needle, and that needle
we tried to insert at every
point along the joint,
and the needle couldn't be
inserted. A perfect cut.
One of the most baffling
questions for Posnansky
was why they build Tiwanaku with
such precision. This, he felt,
was an important clue to the age
of the structure.
Now, the ancients constructed
the site with
astromonical alignments in mind.
As the sun rises, each day it
moves along the horizon,
and arises in a different spot.
To measure this movement they
built the temple itself
as a giant clock,
to tell them how the progression
of the sun was proceeding.
And we can use those same
astronomical alignments
to date the site.
Posnansky observed that on the
first day of spring
the sun rose exactly in the
center of the temple
through the archway.
Based on the layout of the
temple he deduced
that on the first days of winter
and summer, the sun
should rise directly over
each of the huge cornerstones.
But he found this was not the
case.
The position of the sun was for
some reason slightly outside
of the corner markers.
He wondered what that reason
was.
In Tiwanaku, and in the other
ancient sites surrounding it,
the architecture is perfectly
aligned to the cardinal points.
The buildings are deliberately
oriented to the cardinal points.
But if we measure each building
precisely, we will find errors.
I believe these are simple
errors of construction,
not at all related to the date
of construction.
After observing the perfection
with which this site is built
with 100 ton stones, to suggest
that such things as
the solstice markers are
misaligned, I find incredible.
No, I think the solstice markers
were probably
very precisely located, as
everything else in the site.
And in fact this is the very
argument that Posnansky used
to calculate the antiquity of
the site.
By measuring the angle of the
cornerstones
and comparing that angle to
today's sunrise position,
Posnansky was able to calculate
that Tiwanaku was built
17,000 years ago.
At that time the tilt of the
Earth's axis
was slightly different than it
is today,
so the summer and winter suns
would have risen
directly above the ancient
cornerstones.
The only correction that I would
make is that we now have
better astronomical measurements
due to satellites and computers.
And I would suspect the date
would be more like
12,000 years ago.
But that still makes Tiwanaku
the oldest city known on the
face of the Earth.
In his chronicles of Peru,
written in the 1600's,
Garcia De La Vega wrote that
when the Spanish first arrived
in South America they asked the
Incas,
"Who built this incredible city
of Tiwanaku?
"Did you build it?"
The Inca said, "No."
In fact, they laughed at the
idea.
They said, "We had nothing
to do with it.
"This was built thousands
of years before our time."
The current view says that man
arrived in South America
around 15,000 years ago, a
wandering hunter-gatherer.
Yet the evidence we've seen
suggests that
Tiwanaku was designed by an
advanced civilization.
A chance discovery revealed just
how advanced they may have been.
While restoring the ancient
Temple at Pumapunka,
Dr. Rivera and his team
discovered a long-lost secret
of the ancient builders. They
found a strange depression
between two blocks of stone.
Upon clearing out the debris,
they noticed the unmistakable
glint of metal.
Whoever built Tiwanaku came up
with a very ingenious method
for holding together the huge
stones
which they used to build the
site.
They carved a groove in the
edge,
and into this groove they would
pour a molten alloy
which later hardened into a
staple.
What I find amazing here is that
to move to each site
where the staple was needed,
they had to have something like
a portable smelting plant to
maintain this metal
in a molten state.
Mysterious metal clamps reveal
the level of technology
far beyond their time.
The antiquity and the
technological sophistication of
Tiwanaku should make each and
every one of us fully question
the origins of civilization.
Where did the ancient Tiwanakans
learn this complex process?
The answer may lie halfway
around the world
at one of man's most mysterious
monuments --
the Great Sphinx of Egypt.
Is it possible that there was an
advanced civilization
on this planet thousands of
years before history tells us?
Investigative journalist Graham
Hancock
considers this to be a very real
possibility.
He's dedicated 9 years of his
life
to tracking down the evidence.
This monument is one of a
category of monuments
from all over the world.
These monuments have certain
things in common.
First and foremost, enormous
blocks of stone,
gigantic, weighing hundreds of
tons.
Secondly, very precise,
scientific astronomical
alignments.
And thirdly, the greatest
mystery of all,
we don't know who built these
monuments.
Hancock points to a number of
sites throughout the world
which exhibit gigantic stone
construction.
This is called megalithic
architecture.
The immense fortress at
Saksaywaman in Peru
is comprised of individual
granite stones,
some weighing 360 tons.
That's the equivalent of two
diesel locomotives.
The Osireion in Egypt is made of
tremendous pillars of
red Aswan granite, some of which
weigh over 100 tons.
My own view is that what we're
looking at here
is a common influence that
touched all of these places
long before recorded history
began.
A remote, third party
civilization
unidentified by historians that
had a presence in Mexico,
that had a presence in South
America,
that had a presence in Egypt,
and elsewhere.
And that left behind a legacy of
knowledge
in all of those places.
In 1993, an independent
Egyptologist, John Anthony West,
shocked the world with
geological evidence
that the Sphinx in Egypt could
be 12,000 years old.
Recently, astronomer-engineer
Robert Bauval,
using a computer model of the
Giza Plateau
made a startling discovery which
seems to confirm
this ancient age of the Sphinx.
In very simple terms, the first
thing that one realizes
when you look at the pyramids of
Giza
is that they're designed along
astronomical principles.
We're finding that the astronomy
is leading us to conclude
that the Sphinx was erected in
10,500 BC.
And this matches exactly
with the ideas that have been
developed
in the geological analysis of
the Sphinx.
So there are two hard sciences
now indicating that the Sphinx
could be very, very old, and
going back to the 11th
millennium BC.
According to Graham Hancock,
if Tiwanaku and the Sphinx were
both built around
12,000 years ago, they may have
had a common source.
Consider these similarities
between the Americas and Egypt.
Both had huge pyramids,
precisely aligned to the
cardinal points.
Temples with megalithic stones
with extremely fine joints of
less than a 50th of an inch.
Both Egypt and the Americas used
royal headdresses
of similar style.
Both employed a unique style of
construction
using 'L' shaped corners.
Both used the same style of
metal clamps
to hold huge stones in place.
And both cultures used the
process of mummification
to preserve and honor their
dead.
These compelling similarities
between Egypt and the Americas
suggest to some that a
sophisticated group of seafaring
people crossed the Atlantic
thousands of years before
Columbus.
A collection of ancient maps
suggests
they may have had a knowledge of
the world
which has never been explained.
In 1929,
rolled up on a dusty shelf in a
library in Constantinople
in Turkey, a map was found.
This map had been drawn in 1513
by a Turkish Admiral,
Admiral Piri Reis.
The strange thing about this map
is
it shows features of the earth
that nobody in 1513
should have been able to know.
Before the 18th century, sailors
ran the risk of
crashing their ships onto rocky
coastlines
because they lacked one thing --
the ability to calculate
longitude.
For that you need an extremely
accurate clock.
It wasn't until 1790 that the
first accurate marine timepiece
was invented, and sailors could
pinpoint their position
on the seas.
Yet 250 years before this clock
was made,
Piri Reis had drawn a map which
showed the coastlines of
Africa and South America within
half a degree of longitude.
And as Piri Reis himself told
us,
that knowledge was not his
knowledge,
it was knowledge that he'd
borrowed and copied
from earlier maps.
And he stated on the map that it
was based on more than
20 source maps, and that some of
these maps went back to the time
of Alexander the Great, or even
earlier.
In other words, to before the
time of Christ.
So the mystery is where did
these source maps come from?
Who charted the globe long ages
ago with an accuracy
that we ourselves can hardly
match today?
A professor of science, a
Charles Hapgood,
was combing through the map room
at the Library of Congress
when he made a startling
discovery.
As my eyes fell upon the
southern hemisphere
of a world map drawn by Oronteus
Finaeus in 1532,
I had the instant conviction
that I had found here
a truly authentic map of the
real Antarctica.
And the mystery of this map is
it shows Antarctica as it looks
under the ice long before
Antarctica is even supposed to
have been discovered.
And perhaps the greatest mystery
of all
is that it shows the Antarctic
Peninsula not as it looks today,
covered by more than a mile of
ice,
but as it actually looks
underneath that covering of ice.
Now, we ourselves have only
known what the land
under the Antarctic Peninsula
really looks like since 1958,
when seismic surveys were taken
across the icecap.
Hapgood put his theory to the
test.
He compared the Oronteus Finaeus
map with the map of Antarctica
as it looks covered with ice.
The maps were similar,
but details of the coastline
were obscured by the ice.
Then, using a map created by
seismographic survey
he was able to compare the
actual coastlines of Antarctica
with the Oronteus Finaeus map.
When the maps were overlaid, the
similarities astounded him.
The clearest deduction of all is
that whoever drew up
those original source maps
thousands of years ago
had a level of technology as
high as our own.
They had explored the whole
globe from north to south
and from east to west.
So this is testimony of an
advanced and as yet unidentified
civilization in remote
pre-history.
A wooly mammoth was frozen so
quickly that it's
last meal of buttercups remained
fresh in it's stomach
for thousands of years.
But this sudden drop in
temperature may be a clue
to the disappearance of the
unidentified civilization
Plato called Atlantis.
If a technologically advanced
culture did live on the earth
thousands of years ago, what
happened to them?
The Greek philosopher, Plato,
described an advanced
civilization whose legend was
preserved by Egyptian priests.
As the story goes,
Atlantis was a great empire of
engineers and scientists
who were, in many ways, more
technologically advanced
than we are today.
It was destroyed 12,000 years
ago by floods and earthquakes,
forcing it's survivors to seek
refuge all over the world.
For centuries, scientists and
explorers have searched in vain
for a continent that fits
Plato's description of Atlantis.
So far, no sign of this vast
island empire has been found.
Some say it sank into the
Atlantic Ocean.
Others say it was destroyed by
the volcanic eruption of Thera
in the Mediterranean.
But researcher Rand Flem-Ath
believes he's found a location
that no one else has ever
considered.
Atlantis, he says, is buried
under two miles of ice.
Up until now the search for
Atlantis has been restricted
to two bodies of water -- the
Mediterranean Sea,
and the North Atlantic.
But Atlantis is said to have
been in the real ocean.
And we now understand that the
world has only one ocean,
the world ocean.
In the middle of that ocean is
Antarctica.
It's right smack in the middle.
And this is where we believe
that the mapping of the earth
took place. It's most famously
known as Atlantis.
Today, Antarctica is a frozen
wasteland,
virtually uninhabitable.
According to geologists,
it's been buried under ice for
almost 2 million years.
How could any civilization have
thrived there
only 12,000 years ago?
A surprising discovery in
Siberia may hold the answer.
In 1977, a Russian bulldozer
operator
noticed a block of muddy ice
containing a curious dark mass.
On closer inspection, he was
amazed to see
the contours of a small
elephant-like creature.
He had discovered a perfectly
preserved wooly mammoth.
In a kind of zone of death, all
over the northern hemisphere --
northern Siberia, northern
Canada,
we find the frozen carcasses of
hundreds of thousands
of large mammal species, mainly
mammoths,
but also wooly rhinos and other
creatures of this kind.
And when their stomach contents
are examined, as they have been,
they are found to have been
grazing on warm weather
vegetation, and yet they're now
positioned extremely close
to the North Pole. The only
theory which really explains
this mystery is the theory of
crustal displacement.
That the land that they were on
was shoved into
a much colder climate very
suddenly.
Professor Charles Hapgood was
fascinated by the fact that
thousands of animals could be
frozen completely in a brief
moment in geological time, and
that ancient maps of Antarctica
suggest that it too was frozen
over very quickly.
For Hapgood, this could only be
explained in one way.
That entire continents could
rapidly change positions
on the planet.
About 12,000 years ago,
there was a displacement of the
earth's crust.
The entire outer shell of the
earth moved
something like 2,000 miles.
And when the earth's crust
shifted,
all of Antarctica is
encapsulated by the polar zone,
and at the same time, North
America is released
from the Arctic Circle, and
becomes temperate.
So we have ice melting in North
America,
ice forming in Antarctica.
When professor Hapgood first
proposed this theory
it was met with silence from the
scientific community,
with one notable exception. Dr.
Albert Einstein.
"I find your arguments very
impressive,
"and have the impression that
your hypothesis is correct.
"One can hardly doubt that
significant shifts of
"the crust of the earth have
taken place repeatedly,
"and within a short time."
This controversial theory is
based on a well-accepted fact.
The individual continents have
been slowly drifting apart
for millions of years.
This is possible because the
outer crust of the earth floats
upon a semi-liquid layer.
Hapgood's theory of
crustal displacement takes this
principle one step further.
It states that the entire crust
of the earth can shift
in one piece, like the loose
skin of an orange.
Hapgood documented three earth
crust displacements
in the last 100,000 years.
We believe that they happen
every 41,000 years.
The last one happened 11 and a
half thousand years ago, so
we're not due for another earth
crust displacement for
29 and a half thousand years.
According to Hapgood's theory,
this cataclysmic shift is caused
by an imbalance of ice
on the polar caps.
Over time, ice builds up at the
poles,
reaching as much as two miles in
thickness.
The tremendous weight of the ice
causes an imbalance
on the globe. The ice shifts,
dragging the outer crust and the
continents in one piece
to new positions.
The polar caps are now in a
warmer climate,
where they begin to melt,
while temperate lands are in the
polar regions
where they freeze and build up
ice.
If Hapgood's theory is possible,
and land masses can suddenly
shift 2000 miles,
it might explain how an entire
continent and its people
could have been lost to history.
I am convinced by the evidence
that we are a species with
amnesia.
We have forgotten something of
great importance
from our own past.
When we recover it, we'll
realize, for a start,
that our civilization isn't the
apex of creation.
It isn't the pinnacle towards
which
everything has been building
throughout all of geological
time.
Rather it's part of an up and
down, a flow,
and it's possible for a
civilization to reach
a very high level of advancement
and be wiped out.
This is something we've never
really confronted,
and we need to confront it.
We've met the experts and looked
at the evidence
that seems to contradict our
conventional theories
about the human race.
Numerous artifacts indicate to
some scientists that
man could be millions of years
old,
throwing into question our
descent from the apes.
Ancient maps and megalithic
architecture suggest that
an advanced culture may have
existed 12,000 years ago --
their homeland wiped out by a
cataclysm
that rearranged the entire face
of the planet.
It's been said that man has made
the climb
from stone age to civilization
more than once,
and that our present time is
just the latest in this cycle.
But only if the evidence is
allowed to speak for itself
will we ever learn the truth
about the mysterious origins of
man.